In June 2002, Musk founded SpaceX, with an objective to lower space transportation costs and make Mars colonisation a reality. Musk invested a lot of money which he got from the sale of PayPal into SpaceX. The company’s first three launches failed which sparked scepticism in many investors. They only had enough money for one more launch; they were almost at the verge of bankruptcy.

It was a very stressful time for Musk. The fourth launch was a huge success, and as a consequence SpaceX received a contract from NASA for $1.6 billion. SpaceX was sending rockets to space at one third the cost of any other agencies in the business. Musk had gone all out for the SpaceX launch which, fortunately for him, turned out to be a success.

Musk founded Tesla Motors in 2003, a company aimed to produce cost-efficient electric cars. Tesla's first electric car was Roadster, a high performance vehicle but not very cost-efficient. The launch was delayed and the company also faced severe financial issues, coming very close to shutting down. By his own admission, 2008 was the worst year of his life. The car was costing almost double the predicted price, thereby making the funds insufficient. Musk had to make an important decision then: Either put all his life’s savings into the company or see his company fade away. The latter wasn’t an option for him, so he put everything in. The gamble turned out to be lucky for this parallel-entrepreneur as the car received great reviews for its performance.

After pumping all his money into Tesla and SpaceX, Musk was running dry. Musk was living on personal loans from friends since October 2009. Even the company wasn’t doing very good financially and had to borrow $465 million from The United States Department of Energy. Before this, Tesla had been largely surviving on Musk’s personal investments, which was no longer possible. His divorce settlement with his wife added to his woes. Tesla came to Musk’s rescue, with reimbursing his trips and awarding him 6.7 million stock options.
